So over the last lectures, we learned a lot about the basics of validation
with this email validation
and that's great.
Let's now move on to the other controls and let's find out how we can validate these
and let's dive into some other built-in validators vuelidate offers.
Let's work on the age,
let's say we only want to accept people which are at least 18 years old
and of course age should be a number,
so what can we do here?
We can
first of all set up a control, a ruleset for the age so I'll name this age and we have to name it age
because our property in the data method here also is named age, we're binding to age with v-model and
for vuelidate to successfully synchronize this, it has to be named age. This then is a javascript object
where you register all the validators you want to use.
Now here I want to use required,
it should not be empty
but I actually also want to ensure that people enter a number and that this number is at least 18.
So what we can do is we can import two additional built-in validators,
the first is numeric and it simply checks whether the value is a number,
the second is min and now you have minLength and minValue.
Now minLength is interesting if you validate a string which should be at least six characters long,
maybe for the password, minValue is what I want to use here,
it allows us to check if a numeric or date value is higher than a specific value you enter.
Now let's assign both validators to the age here,
numeric is easy,
we assign it just as required,
taking advantage of this key value expansion shortcut, minLength is different though.
Here you can assign min or whatever you want,
again this name of the key is up to you
but then here, I'll name it minVal, the value now is minValue,
so what I am importing, this built-in validator. minValue now is special
and that's also why I'm assigning it like this, unlike required in numeric, minValue is a function which
requires an argument to be configured because we of course need to pass our minimum value, our criteria.
So here I could pass 18, so that the minimum value is 18
otherwise it's treated as invalid.
Now with that we got this age control, let's now connect it to our input here.
So I'll go back to the input field here,
I'll also listen to the blur event here and reach out to $v.age and call $touch,
as before.
With that we connected this,
let's now also mark this as invalid if it is invalid
and this is super simple,
we already defined the styles,
let's now just set class and bind it to a javascript object where we set an invalid class if
$v.age, that's the name of the control we created, has an error,
it's as simple as that
and with that we should have all we need.
Let's now save this and find out if it works,
if I go back to my application, I'll reload just to make sure it really is reset,
now here this is of type numeric,
if I enter an E and I click out of there, it's invalid. If I enter a one, it's still invalid because it's not
higher than 18. If I enter 18,
now it becomes valid because it's a number and it's higher than 18,
if I enter nothing, it's invalid again because well, there is no value
and we did have the required validator.
So this seems to work,
now of course we can also output an error message and we can also take advantage of this validator
which takes a value to also output that value in our error message.
So below the age input, I'll add a paragraph where I output
you have to be at least
and then I want to output the value I defined in my validation rule, years old, something like that.
Now that should be output if $v.age.minVal,
if that's not true.
minVal now refers to my property I defined here,
as I said, you can pick this name, totally free, you don't have any limitations.
Now I want to access this parameter I passed and I can do this because vuelidate exposes it to me,
here in my sentence between double curly braces, I can reach out to $v.age
and now there's the special params,
$params object.
This now hold params for all our different validators including minVal which I can now access there
and on minVal, there now will be a min property and you can always output this as I did earlier in this
module where it just logged $v, you can of course log $v.age, $params to see what's
inside there,
there will be a minVal property with this min property which is the value we passed to the minValue
function down there.
So now it should output you have to be at least 18 years old if we don't enter a value that is higher
then this minimum value here.
So if we go back, right at the start we don't see anything
but if I enter a one, you see you, ok there's a typo but you see you have to be at least 18 years old.
Now if I go back and quickly fix this typo and now we only output this correctly, only if I'm lower than
18, if I enter 18 or higher we don't get this error.
So now we have these two, we can get access to the data we used to configure our validators which of course
makes them really reusable and gives us a lot of power. I can only encourage you to dive into the
official docs to learn about all the built-in validators.
That being said though, let's move on to the password because here, we got another interesting feature,
we want to ensure that they both are equal.